Ques: What is List.
Ans: Lists are mutable, ordered collection that stores elements using dynamic array.It allows heterogeneous datatypes.
     It supports Indexing(positive and negative both),remove,search,sort and slicing operations. It uses dynamic resizing.
     E.g . list=[1,2,3,4,5] or list=[Apple,Bannana,Orange]

Ques: What is tupple.
Ans: tuples are unmutable, ordered collection of elements using static array. It supports indexing,seach,iteration operations. 
     E.g. t=(10,20,30)

Ques: What is dictionary.
Ans: Dictionary is an mutable,Unordered Data structure uses key-value pairs , Keys must be hashable and unique.
     dictionary can be implemented using hash-table. It supports Add/Update,Lookup,Delete,Iterate operations.
     E.g. dict={"Surname":"Singhal","Age":"22","FirstName":"Yash"}

Ques: Explain Concept of ListComprehension.
Ans: List Comprehension is  a Compact Syntax for creating new lists from existing iterables using:
     1.Loops,
     2.Optional condition
     3.Optional transformation
     Syntax : [ expression  for item in iterable  if condition ]
 E.g. result=["even" if num%2==0: else "odd" for num in range(10)]

Ques: What is lambda function.
Ans: A lamda function is an anonymus, one line function  created using lambda keyword.
     Syntax: lamda arguments:expression
E.g. square=lambda x:x*x

Ques: What is Map fucntion.
Ans: A map() function applies a function to every element of an iterable and returns a map object (lazy iterator).
      Syntax: map(function, iterable)
E.g. nums = [1, 2, 3, 4]
     squares = list(map(lambda x: x * x, nums))
     # [1, 4, 9, 16]

Ques: Explain Filter() function.
Ans: filter() keeps only those elements for which the function returns True.
     Syntax: filter(function,iterable)

E.g. nums = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6]
     evens = list(filter(lambda x: x % 2 == 0, nums))
     # [2, 4, 6]

Ques: Describe whole OOP's concept in breif.
Ans: OOP's  is a programming paradigm based on the concept of object . It helps in ,
     1.resusablity
     2.modularity
     3.maintainability
     4.Real-world modeling

     Class: A class is a blueprint or template for creating objects.
     Objects: A object is an instance of a class.

It has four main pillars:
1.Inheritance,
2.Encapsulation
3.Abstaction
4.Polymorphism

Ques: Explain init METHOD.
Ans: __init__ method is used for initialization and called automatically when an object is created.

Ques: Explain Inheritance and its types.
Ans: Inheritance is defined as the it allows one class to inherit the property of another class.
     Parent class: Gives Features
     Child class: Recieves features
     These are  types of inheritance are :
     1. Single
     2. Multiple
     3. Multilevel
     4. Hieracial
     5. Hybrid

Ques: Explain encapsulation.
Ans: Wrapping data (attributes) and methods in a class. using,
     _protected members(single underscore)
     __private members(double underscore)

Ques: Explain Abstraction.
Ans: Showing only essential features and hiding implementation. using,
     Abstract classes
     Interfaces
Ques: Explain Polymorphism.
Ans: Polymorphism means one name, many forms.
     In OOP, polymorphism allows the same function or method to behave differently depending on the object that is calling it.
     👉 "Same function name → different behavior."
     It helps achieve flexibility and reusability in code.

Ques: Explain exception handling.
Ans: Exception Handling is a mechanism that allows a program to detect and manage errors during runtime without crashing.
     1.try : Block where you write the code that might raise an error.
     2.except : Block that catches and handles the error.
     3.else : Runs only when no exception occurs inside try.
     4.finally : Runs always, whether exception occurs or not (cleanup code).

Ques: Explain Decorators in python.
Ans: A decorator is a higher-order function in Python that allows you to modify or extend the behavior of another function without changing its actual code. 
     It wraps the function, adds extra logic, and returns the updated function.

Ques: Explain Generators in python.
Ans: A generator is a special type of function in Python that returns values one at a time using the yield keyword instead of returning all values at once.
     A generator uses:  yield value

Ques: Define Mutable vs Immutable in python.
Ans:  Mutable vs Immutable (Short Difference)

      1. Mutable objects can be changed after creation.
         Immutable objects cannot be changed after creation.

     2. Mutable objects keep the same memory address.
        Immutable objects create a new memory address when changed.

     3. Mutable examples: list, dict, set.
        Immutable examples: int, float, str, tuple.

     4. Mutable objects cannot be used as dictionary keys.
        Immutable objects can be used as dictionary keys.

Ques: Explain Deep VS Shallow copy.
Ans: Shallow Copy vs Deep Copy (Concise)

     1. Shallow Copy:
       - Copies only the outer object.
       - Inner/nested objects are shared.
       - Changes in nested objects affect the original.
       - Function: copy.copy()

     2. Deep Copy:
       - Copies both outer and all nested objects.
       - No sharing of inner objects.
       - Changes do NOT affect the original.
       - Function: copy.deepcopy()

